README.md, before:

<!--
  - SPDX-FileCopyrightText: 2019 Nextcloud GmbH and Nextcloud contributors
  - SPDX-License-Identifier: AGPL-3.0-or-later
-->	
## @nextcloud/eslint-config

[![REUSE status](https://api.reuse.software/badge/github.com/nextcloud-libraries/eslint-config)](https://api.reuse.software/info/github.com/nextcloud-libraries/eslint-config)
[![npm last version](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/@nextcloud/eslint-config.svg?style=flat-square)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@nextcloud/eslint-config)
[![Lint status](https://img.shields.io/github/actions/workflow/status/nextcloud-libraries/eslint-config/lint-eslint.yml?label=lint&style=flat-square)](https://github.com/nextcloud-libraries/eslint-config/actions/workflows/lint.yml)
[![Dependabot status](https://img.shields.io/badge/Dependabot-enabled-brightgreen.svg?longCache=true&style=flat-square&logo=dependabot)](https://dependabot.com)


This is a package containing the unified global eslint config used by all nextcloud apps and libraries.
It contains the necessary dependencies and peerDependencies so that other apps cannot update if this config does not support it.
Please always use dependabot to update your apps, OR pay attention to the peer dependencies error messages!

## Installation

```bash
npm install @nextcloud/eslint-config --save-dev
```

## Usage

> [!NOTE]
> Since version 9 this package depends on ESLint 9, which uses the new flat config system.

This package provides some predefined configurations you can choose from.
For the recommended setup add a file `eslint.config.js` in the root directory of your app repository with the following content:

```js
import { recommended } from '@nextcloud/eslint-config'

export default [
	...recommended,
]
```

### Available configurations

Instead of the `recommended` configuration this package also provides some alternatives, depending on your app setup you can also choose:

* `recommended`
  * General rules including code style
  * Support for Typescript
  * Support for Vue **3**
  * Support Vue files with Typescript syntax (the script within `.vue` files will be handled as Typescript).
* `recommendedJavascript`
  * Same as `recommended` but Vue files (the script part) will be handled as Javascript.
* `recommendedVue2`
  * Same as `recommended` but Vue files are considered in Vue 2 syntax.
* `recommendedVue2Javascript`
  * Same as `recommended` but Vue files are considered in Vue 2 syntax and the script part will be handled as Javascript instead of Typescript.

#### Configurations for Nextcloud libraries

For libraries some of the presets make no sense, like checking Nextcloud deprecated API.
But on the otherhand some rules should be enforced, like documenting all properties.
So for libraries use following configurations:

* `recommendedLibrary`
* `recommendedVue2Library`

### Bundled plugins

This configuration also provides some bundled plugins with new rules, those options are already included in the recommended configurations.

It is possible to override the recommended configurations:
```js
// eslint.config.js
import { recommended } from '@nextcloud/eslint-config'
export default [
	...recommended,
	{
		files: ['**/*.js'],
		rules: {
			// Make deprecations error instead of warning level
			'@nextcloud/no-deprecations': ['error'],
		}
	}
]
```

You can even use the plugins without using the Nextcloud ESLint config:
```js
// eslint.config.js
import { nextcloudPlugin } from '@nextcloud/eslint-config'
export default [
	{
		files: ['**/*.js'],
		plugins: {
			'@nextcloud': nextcloudPlugin,
		},
		rules: {
			'@nextcloud/no-removed-apis': ['error', { targetVersion: '29.0.0' }],
		},
	}
]
```

#### `package-json` plugin
Rules:
- `sort-package-json`
  - Ensures the `package.json` is sorted in consistent order
  - Included as `error` level in recommended configurations

#### `@nextcloud` plugin
Rules:
- `no-deprecations`
  - Report usage of deprecated Nextcloud API
  - Included as `warn` level in recommended configuration
  - Available options
    ```ts
    {
      /**
       * Limit deprecated API to specified Nextcloud version
       * @example '29.0.0'
       * @default ''
       */
      targetVersion?: string
      /**
       * Try to find appinfo.xml to detect targetVersion
       * @default true
       */
      parseAppInfo?: boolean
    }
    ```
- `no-removed-apis`
  - Report usage of removed Nextcloud API
  - Included as `error` level in recommended configuration
  - Available options
    ```ts
    {
      /**
       * Limit removed API to specified Nextcloud version
       * @example '29.0.0'
       * @default ''
       */
      targetVersion?: string
      /**
       * Try to find appinfo.xml to detect targetVersion
       * @default true
       */
      parseAppInfo?: boolean
    }
    ```

#### `@nextcloud-l10n`
```ts
import { l10nPlugin  } from '@nextcloud/eslint-config'
```

Rules:
- `enforce-ellipsis`
  - Enforce consistent usageof ellipsis instead of tripple dots
  - Included as `error` level in recommended configuration
- `non-breaking-space`
  - Enforce non-breaking spaces before ellipsis
  - Included as `error` level in recommended configuration

### Adding custom overrides

Sometimes additional rules need to be added for individual projects,
and while we do not recommend to override Nextcloud rules for code style (it should be consistent across all Nextcloud projects!),
it is possible to add such custom rules.

For example to enforce chains to be on separate lines:

```diff
- const a = foo().then((a) => a.b).catch((e) => e.c)
+ const a = foo()
+ 	.then((a) => a.b)
+ 	.catch((e) => e.c)
```

Adjust your `eslint.config.js` like this:

```js
import { recommended } from '@nextcloud/eslint-config'

export default [
	...recommended,
	{
		rules: {
			'@stylistic/newline-per-chained-call': ['error'],
		}
	},
]
```

## Release new version

 1. Update CHANGELOG.md file with the latest changes
 2. Bump the package version with `npm version`
 3. Push version bump commit
 4. Create a new release with proper changelog https://github.com/nextcloud-libraries/eslint-config/releases/new

Commit message:

docs: add section about mixed TS + JS Vue projects
Signed-off-by: Ferdinand Thiessen <opensource@fthiessen.de>

README.md, after:

<!--
  - SPDX-FileCopyrightText: 2019 Nextcloud GmbH and Nextcloud contributors
  - SPDX-License-Identifier: AGPL-3.0-or-later
-->	
## @nextcloud/eslint-config

[![REUSE status](https://api.reuse.software/badge/github.com/nextcloud-libraries/eslint-config)](https://api.reuse.software/info/github.com/nextcloud-libraries/eslint-config)
[![npm last version](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/@nextcloud/eslint-config.svg?style=flat-square)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@nextcloud/eslint-config)
[![Lint status](https://img.shields.io/github/actions/workflow/status/nextcloud-libraries/eslint-config/lint-eslint.yml?label=lint&style=flat-square)](https://github.com/nextcloud-libraries/eslint-config/actions/workflows/lint.yml)
[![Dependabot status](https://img.shields.io/badge/Dependabot-enabled-brightgreen.svg?longCache=true&style=flat-square&logo=dependabot)](https://dependabot.com)


This is a package containing the unified global eslint config used by all nextcloud apps and libraries.
It contains the necessary dependencies and peerDependencies so that other apps cannot update if this config does not support it.
Please always use dependabot to update your apps, OR pay attention to the peer dependencies error messages!

## Installation

```bash
npm install @nextcloud/eslint-config --save-dev
```

## Usage

> [!NOTE]
> Since version 9 this package depends on ESLint 9, which uses the new flat config system.

This package provides some predefined configurations you can choose from.
For the recommended setup add a file `eslint.config.js` in the root directory of your app repository with the following content:

```js
import { recommended } from '@nextcloud/eslint-config'

export default [
	...recommended,
]
```

### Available configurations

Instead of the `recommended` configuration this package also provides some alternatives, depending on your app setup you can also choose:

* `recommended`
  * General rules including code style
  * Support for Typescript
  * Support for Vue **3**
  * Support Vue files with Typescript syntax (the script within `.vue` files will be handled as Typescript).
* `recommendedJavascript`
  * Same as `recommended` but Vue files (the script part) will be handled as Javascript.
* `recommendedVue2`
  * Same as `recommended` but Vue files are considered in Vue 2 syntax.
* `recommendedVue2Javascript`
  * Same as `recommended` but Vue files are considered in Vue 2 syntax and the script part will be handled as Javascript instead of Typescript.

#### Configurations for Nextcloud libraries

For libraries some of the presets make no sense, like checking Nextcloud deprecated API.
But on the otherhand some rules should be enforced, like documenting all properties.
So for libraries use following configurations:

* `recommendedLibrary`
* `recommendedVue2Library`

### Bundled plugins

This configuration also provides some bundled plugins with new rules, those options are already included in the recommended configurations.

It is possible to override the recommended configurations:
```js
// eslint.config.js
import { recommended } from '@nextcloud/eslint-config'
export default [
	...recommended,
	{
		files: ['**/*.js'],
		rules: {
			// Make deprecations error instead of warning level
			'@nextcloud/no-deprecations': ['error'],
		}
	}
]
```

You can even use the plugins without using the Nextcloud ESLint config:
```js
// eslint.config.js
import { nextcloudPlugin } from '@nextcloud/eslint-config'
export default [
	{
		files: ['**/*.js'],
		plugins: {
			'@nextcloud': nextcloudPlugin,
		},
		rules: {
			'@nextcloud/no-removed-apis': ['error', { targetVersion: '29.0.0' }],
		},
	}
]
```

#### `package-json` plugin
Rules:
- `sort-package-json`
  - Ensures the `package.json` is sorted in consistent order
  - Included as `error` level in recommended configurations

#### `@nextcloud` plugin
Rules:
- `no-deprecations`
  - Report usage of deprecated Nextcloud API
  - Included as `warn` level in recommended configuration
  - Available options
    ```ts
    {
      /**
       * Limit deprecated API to specified Nextcloud version
       * @example '29.0.0'
       * @default ''
       */
      targetVersion?: string
      /**
       * Try to find appinfo.xml to detect targetVersion
       * @default true
       */
      parseAppInfo?: boolean
    }
    ```
- `no-removed-apis`
  - Report usage of removed Nextcloud API
  - Included as `error` level in recommended configuration
  - Available options
    ```ts
    {
      /**
       * Limit removed API to specified Nextcloud version
       * @example '29.0.0'
       * @default ''
       */
      targetVersion?: string
      /**
       * Try to find appinfo.xml to detect targetVersion
       * @default true
       */
      parseAppInfo?: boolean
    }
    ```

#### `@nextcloud-l10n`
```ts
import { l10nPlugin  } from '@nextcloud/eslint-config'
```

Rules:
- `enforce-ellipsis`
  - Enforce consistent usageof ellipsis instead of tripple dots
  - Included as `error` level in recommended configuration
- `non-breaking-space`
  - Enforce non-breaking spaces before ellipsis
  - Included as `error` level in recommended configuration

### Adding custom overrides

Sometimes additional rules need to be added for individual projects,
and while we do not recommend to override Nextcloud rules for code style (it should be consistent across all Nextcloud projects!),
it is possible to add such custom rules.

For example to enforce chains to be on separate lines:

```diff
- const a = foo().then((a) => a.b).catch((e) => e.c)
+ const a = foo()
+ 	.then((a) => a.b)
+ 	.catch((e) => e.c)
```

Adjust your `eslint.config.js` like this:

```js
import { recommended } from '@nextcloud/eslint-config'

export default [
	...recommended,
	{
		rules: {
			'@stylistic/newline-per-chained-call': ['error'],
		}
	},
]
```

#### Mixed Js + TS Vue projects

In mixed projects, meaning projects that use Typescript and Javascript for Vue components,
always the Typescript rules are applied.
This is because ESLint can only set rules based on the file extension (`.vue`) not based
on the content like `<script type="ts">`.

In general this is not a problem but some rules might not work as intended within those Vue components:

- JSDoc types are removed.
  When using Typescript it makes no sense to also have JSDoc types, often they are forgotten
  and will diverge overtime from the real Typescript types of the annotated code.

In those cases you can disable the rule like this:
```js
import { recommended } from '@nextcloud/eslint-config'

export default [
	...recommended,
	{
		files: ['**/*.vue'],
		rules: {
			'jsdoc/no-types': 'off',
		}
	},
]
```

## Release new version

 1. Update CHANGELOG.md file with the latest changes
 2. Bump the package version with `npm version`
 3. Push version bump commit
 4. Create a new release with proper changelog https://github.com/nextcloud-libraries/eslint-config/releases/new
